
_SirMail_ is a _IMAP_ mail client. The current version has a number of
rough edges, but it is quite useful to the authors.

Caveat: All marks (used for deletion and copying) are local to the
client. SirMail doesn't use the \Deleted IMAP flag until it is ready
to delete marked messages. Also, it pays no attention to \Deleted
flags when synchronizing. However, SirMail removes a \Delete flags
from a mailbox before purging marked messages. This prevents SirMail
from accidentally removing messages that you didn't mark within
SirMail (on the local machine).

Terminology: The GUI uses the term "Folder" everywhere instead of
"Mailbox". The latter term matches the IMAP specification.

------------------------------------------------------------

Configure SirMail options by visiting Edit | Preferences in a
mail-reading or mail-sending window. If the current (or default)
options do not allow SirMail to start up, you get just the preferences
dialog, and you must try running again after setting the preferences.

Reading panel:

  - Username: The username to use when logging into the server.

  - IMAP Server: The IMAP server's host name (incoming mail).
    Use a ":<portno>" suffix on the host name to connect to
    port <portno>.

  - Local Directory: The pathname of an existing directory where
    SirMail should store downloaded messages.  Defaults to
     (build-path (find-system-path 'home-dir) "SirMail")

  - Folder List Root: Names a mailbox to use as the root in the mailbox
    folder list window. If this option is not provided, the folder list
    window is not available.
    
  - Auto-File Table File: The file should contain an expression that
    reads as a value of the shape

      (list-of (list mailbox-name-string 
                     (list-of (list field-string regexp-string))))

    which specifies where messages should be autofiled based on
    regular expression matching of various headers in the email. For
    any email, if it has a header named `field-string' that matches
    `regexp-string', it is filed into `mailbox-name-string'.

  - Shown Header Fields: Names header fields to to (in order_ when
    reading a message.

Sending panel:

  - Mail From: The user's email address.

  - SMTP Server: The SMTP server's host name (outgoing mail). General
    syntax: [<type>:][<user>@]<host>[:<portno>] where <type> is "tcp"
    (the default) or "ssl". Supply multiple SMTP hosts by separating
    the addresses with a comma; the "File" menu of mail-sending frame
    will let you choose a specific server.

  - Default To Domain: If a destination address that isn't declared as
    an alias doesn't include a domain name, SirMail automatically
    appends this as the domain.  (For instance, say you tend to work
    at cs.brown.edu and tend to send most of your mail to cs.brown.edu
    users.  However, your SMTP server is an ISP you use from home.  By
    default, the server will attempt to deliver the (un-aliased)
    address `foo' to foo@your-isp.com.  Setting the Default To
    Domain to `cs.brown.edu' will deliver this to foo@cs.brown.edu
    instead, irrespective of what SMTP server you use.

  - Save Sent Files: Check this if you want a copy of messages you
    sent to be saved in an archive, the set it to a directory where
    SirMail should save outgoing messages.

  - Aliases File: SirMail uses this file to resolve shortcut mail
    addresses when sending mail. The file should contain an expression
    that reads as a value of the shape

      (list-of (list string (union string (list-of string))))

    specifying a mapping from names to one or more email
    addresses. These names can be used in the "To", "cc", or "bcc"
    headers of your email address.

    Aliases are expanded recursively.

  - Self Addresses: Strings naming your email addresses so followups do
    not go to yourself.


Internal options that still need preference-panel support:

  - biff-delay-seconds: (union #f number); when number specifies how long
    between SirMail waits before polling the mailbox. Only polls when
    connected.

  - sort-by: (union #f 'date 'subject 'from 'id); specifies the
    initial sorting of opened mailboxes. 
    'id indicates sorting by order received and #f means no sorting.
    These should produce the same ordering, but 'id is probably a bit slower.

  - show-urls: (union 'on 'off), defaults to 'on
    If this is 'on, it highlights urls in the text. Clicking on the
    urls will open a web browser, pointing it at that url.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Implementation Note:

The format of a "mailboxes" file is a list of entries, where each
entry is a list of at least two elements:

 The first element is the local directory for the mailbox's messages.

 The second element is the mailbox name for the IMAP server. 

 The rest are overriding options. For example, there's no easy way to
 move my Rice mailboxes to Utah, so I just access them from Rice on the
 rare occasions when I need them. For each of my Rice mailboxes, the
 "mailboxes" entry contains all the configuration options that apply to
 Rice. Nothing in SirMail ever writes new options into "mailboxes"; I
 add them by hand, and SirMail preserves them. 

The overriding-options feature was a quick hack for what I needed, and
it should be replaced eventually. There's a lot of duplication of
information in the current format.
