
Overview
--------

This canvas test frame is for checking the behavior of the
scrollbars. Canvas scrollbars work in one of two modes:
  1) Managing: the scrollbar determines the size and offset of
     the canvas's drawing area.
  2) Non-managing: the scrollbars are simply placed next to the
     canvas; the canvas's size and offset are not affected by
     the scrollbar values.
In the test frame, the top canvas is initially unmanaged, and the
bottom is managed.

An HVCanvas has both horizontal and vertical scrollbars, but the
scrollbars are initially disabled. Clicking the "Enable Vertical"
checkbox enables the vertical scroll. A VCanvas has only a vertical
scrollbar; clicking "Enable Horizontal" in this case has no effect.
When a canvas is managed by its scrollbars and a scrollbar is missing
in a particular direction, it should act the same as an unmanaged
canvas in that direction.

On each canvas, the following are painted at 0,0:
 * The name of the canvas
 * Three values per scroll bar, for UNMANAGED canvases:
    - The current value of the scroll
    - The maximum value of the scroll
    - The page step of the scroll
   These should all be 0 for MANAGED canvases and for
   disabled directions
 * Two size measurements:
    - The client size of the canvas
    - The drawing area of the canvas
   These should be the same for UNMANAGED canvases/directions
 * Two lines showing what each `virtual boundary' of the canvas would
   be if it is managed and the scrollbar is enabled. (Initially, the
   bottom canvas's boundaries are probably beyond the visible region.)
   When the canvas is managed with a vertical scrollbar, the bottom
   boundary line might not be visible, i.e., it might be clipped - but
   it must be clipped exactly in that case.

As the scroll is changed for the managed canvas, the information will
move, because the scrolls automatically adjust the offset of the
canvas. For the unmanaged canvas, the information is always visible in
the same place; it is just updated.

The top's scrollbars have a range of 10 and a page step of 3.  The
bottom's scrollbars have a range of 20 and a page step of 3 (although
the page step is sometimes ignored for a managed canvas).  In managed
mode:

 * In the bottom canvas, one vertical scroll step is mapped to 10
   pixels and one horizontal step to 25 pixels, making the virtual
   area 200 pixels high and 500 pixels wide.

   When the "Small" checkbox is checked, the range is changed to 2
   instead of 20, making the virtual size 20 high by 50 wide.

 * In the bottom canvas, one vertical or horizontal scroll step is
   mapped to 1 pixel, making the virtual area 10x10.

Initially, the top canvas is unmanaged and the bottom is managed.
Checking the "swap" checkbox makes the top canvas unmanaged and the
bottom canvas managed.

The steps below assume an HVCanvas. Don't resize the window before
starting the steps.

HVCanvas Steps
--------------
 
Enable vertical scroll. The scroll should be at position 1 for both
 canvases. The bottom canvas should be scrolled up 10 pixels.  The
 displayed info should change:
    -------------------------------------------
    | Unmanaged Scroll                        |
    | V: p: 1 r: 10 g: 3 H: 0 0 0             |
    | Client: <m> x <n> Virtual: <m> x <n>    | ; for some <m> and <n>
    -------------------------------------------
    | Automanaged Scroll                      | ; <- actually, scrolled up
    | V: p: 0 r: 0 g: 0 H: 0 0 0              | ; all zero for managed
    | Client: <m> x <n'> Virtual: <m> x 200   | ; <n'> within 1 of <n>
    -------------------------------------------
  (You might not be able to read 200 in the lower right.)
  Make the window slightly wider. Make sure the <m> gets bigger to
  reflect the new width of the canvases.

Set the bottom canvas's vertical scroll to 0. The "Automanaged Scroll"
 should scroll back down into the original location.

Scroll the bottom canvas's vertical scroll to its maximum value (which
 is less than 10) You may see the bottom border close to the bottom
 edge of the canvas.

Adjust the top canvas's scroll, and watch the `p' value change each
 time. The maximum value is 10. Use the `page up/down' areas and make
 sure the `p' value changes by 3.

Turn off the vertical scroll. The bottom canvas's image should snap
 back to its original place. All the `V:' values in the top should
 return to zeros.

Perform the above steps for horizontal scrolling.

Turn on both vertical and horizontal scrolling. You should see the
 obvious combined effect. In particular, the bottom canvas's text
 should be scrolled both up and to the left.

Move all scrolls to 1 step beyond the smallest setting.  

Make the frame larger. The top canvas's scrolls should still have 10
 steps, but the bottom canvas's scrolls will have fewer steps,
 reflecting the fact that less scrolling is needed to see the same
 virtual area.

Test the bottom canvas's scrolls to ensure that the maximum values of
 the scrolls show the edges of the canvas's virtual area.

Make the frame large enough to see the whole bottom canvas's virtual
  area. The scrollbars should become disabled in both directions.

Make the frame smaller again. The bottom canvas's scrolls should
 adjust correctly. Make the frame small enough that all scrollbars are
 active.

Move all scrolls to 1 step beyond the smallest setting.  

Check "swap". Now, the top canvas is managed and the bottom canvas is
 unmanaged. But the top canvas's area is so small that its scrollbars
 are always disabled. (It may also be clipped to the tiny 10x10 box.)
 The bottom canvas's scrollbars should now act the top ones used
 to: there are 20 steps in each direction and the `V:' and `H:' values
 change as the scrolls are moved.

Uncheck "swap". The scrollbars should all go back to the 1 position.
 The bottom canvas should be scrolled in the usual way.

Check "small". The top canvas should be unaffected. The bottom canvas
 should scroll back to 0,0, the scrollbars should be disabled, and a
 50x20 box should be drawn in the upper left (or the entire canvas is
 clipped to that box).

Check "swap". The bottom canvas should not be clipped.

Check "swap". The bottom canvas might be clipped again.

Uncheck "small". The bottom canvas should not be clipped.

Check "small" and disable vertical scrolls. The bottom canvas should
 be clipped horizontally or the boundary drawn at a small offset from
 the left.

Enable vertical and disable horizontal. The bottom canvas will be
 narrowly clipped of have a short boundary from the top.

HCanvas Steps
--------------

A vertical scrollbar should not be visible at all.

Check both "Enable Vertical" and "Enable Horizontal". Verify that the
 canvases act exactly like an HVCanvas with vertical scrolls disabled.

VCanvas Steps
--------------

Transpose the approve appropriately

Canvas Steps
------------

No scrollbars, checking the enabler boxes has no effect.

Click "small" and make sure the bottom canvas is not clipped.

